
<center>Joshua Carpentier</center>

 [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshua-carpentier/) •   [Github](https://github.com/jacgit18)  •  joshuaxcarpentier@gmail.com  •  347-219-7865




***Business System Analyst - TD | New York, NY    Nov 2022 - Dec 2023***

  - I facilitated the adoption of the SAFe workflow across both technical and non-technical teams by collaborating with stakeholders to strategically plan and implement each phase of the process, increasing SAFe adoption by 12% across the entire organization. 
  
  - Collaborated with Product Owners, Scrum Masters, and Stakeholders in agile ceremonies (Sprint Planning, Daily Standups, Sprint Review, and Sprint Retrospective), ensuring smooth execution for enhanced team productivity and collaboration. 
  
  - I took ownership of product backlog refinement and maintenance in Jira, prioritized features, and defined user stories with clear acceptance criteria. This effort resulted in a 20% increase in team efficiency and provided teams with a clear roadmap. 
  
  - Built logical data models for skill matrix using PowerBI along with key soware engineering metrics such as velocity, cycle time, and lead time to identify trends and patterns in technology that are in high demand.
  
  - Conducted comprehensive needs assessments by collaborating closely with stakeholders, interviewing soware engineers and their leads while leveraging data collected which lead to alignment between are upskilling initiatives and organizational goals, and enhancing strategic planning and resource allocation. 
  
  - I collaborated with a third-party upskilling firm to develop and implement an internal upskilling pilot program. This effort resulted in an upskilling series covering a range of topics like Advanced Java, Spring Boot, Docker, Event-Driven Architecture, and Reactive Programming. We successfully hosted 10 cohorts over 5 months, upskilling more than 200+ soware engineers, ranging from associates to senior developers.




***Full-Stack Engineer- TracFlo | New York, NY    Jun 2022 - Sept 2022***

-   As part of Tracflo's product launch, I developed 13+ features over 16 weeks using a PERN stack within a Linux environment. These features allowed 50+ general contractors and subcontracting companies to manage projects with up to 35+ active users with varying roles and permissions.

-   My work included creating a ticket feature that enabled users to create, edit, and access equipment and materials, resulting in an average of 135+ tickets per company project. I also managed feature branches, submitted draft PRs, and maintained coding standards while handling merge conflicts. 

-   Using the Knex.js library, I constructed 30+ migration files to migrate data from older PHP WordPress applications to the new Express.js server running TracFlo's API. This allowed a team of 9+ developers to create new endpoints and routes on the server, 10% ahead of schedule. 

-   To ensure optimal functionality and minimize potential bugs, I employed TDD (Test Driven Development) by creating 25+ tests using the Chai and Mocha test suite. I meticulously debugged HTTP requests on various routes and extensively tested PostgreSQL database functionality using mock data generated by SQL Fixtures and shell scripts. 


  

***Full-Stack Engineer - Independent Consultant | New York, NY    Jun 2021 - Jun 2022***

-   Using JavaScript, React, HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap, I created 15+ self-contained, reusable, and testable components within 8 weeks, 40% ahead of schedule.  

-    I applied the MVC design pattern to increase back-end performance and development efficiency by 20% through separation of concerns and business logic containment.  

-   By maintaining stable sprint cycles, deliverables, code reviews, and meeting schedules using GitHub, we created an agile development environment that helped our team ship 25% faster.  

-   I produced an initial Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD), product roadmap, project scope, and documentation with Markdown, providing structure and clarity for our team of 3+ software engineers.  


**Skills** - AWS, Typescript, JavaScript, React, Redux, Java, WSL, Linux, Git, HTML, CSS, Markdown, Bootstrap, Material UI, jQuery, NoSQL, Node, Express, Docker, Confluence, Jira, Obsidian

  

**CUNY Tech Prep** - Full-Stack Engineer Apprentice May 2021

**New York City College of Technology** - B.S. Computer Information Systems Dec 2020

