As a software engineer, I have learned to love the planning aspect of things, like creating data models & defining & mapping out the functionality almost like building a blueprint of your software. That is one of the reasons why considered myself more of a software carpenter with the aspiration of becoming a software architect.




CV  

As a software developer, I know that there are many levels of software development, and I know I’m the best candidate for the role because of my mindset. Which has helped me conquer many obstacles and continue to find the different missing pieces of the puzzle we call software development. I learned a long time ago that everything is hard, but once I get familiar with the problem and become obsessed and immersed. I can confront the unknown and continue to plot forward and tackle the problem. I view software development as high-level problem solving and consider it similar to martial arts because both are disciplines that require discipline. There is a certain level of attention to detail that you need to maintain while being disciplined and learning many skill sets while applying them, and being alert, sharp to avoid punches while trying to hit back or take someone down and in software development, you have to be almost all those things and willing to learn more. And I believe I carry these attributes because I always try to be better by lapping my past self in a race full of obstacles and problems to be solved. 

CV with tech 

As a software developer, I know that there are many levels to software development, and I know I am the best candidate for the role because of my mindset. Which has helped me conquer many obstacles and continue to find the different missing pieces of the puzzle we call software development. I learned a long time ago that everything is hard, but once I get familiar with the problem and become obsessed and immersed, I can confront the unknown and continue to plot forward towards the problem. Over the years, I have worked with many technologies and am most familiar with JavaScript, React, HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap creating self-containing, reusable, and testable components. As for the back-end I have worked with technologies like Express.js, Node, PostgreSQL, and Docker while applying MVC design patterns for separation of concerns and business-logic-containment, increasing back-end performance, development, iteration, and debugging efficiency by 20%. I have also worked with OOP & Data Structures & Algorithms Using Java and JavaScript. I’ve also worked with GitHub, RESTful APIs, and asynchronous programming. 



As a developer and avid gamer, I know that there are many levels to software development. Whenever I face new challenges like in a video game, the first thing I do is hit restart and try again until I beat that final boss. I always try to improve and make adjustments and sometimes change my approach until I reach my goal. That is why I feel like I am the best choice for this position because I’m highly motivated, skilled, and I follow the mantra “become better than you were yesterday.”  
Following this mindset has pushed me to do a lot, like using Linux as my development environment, and has made me more competent in things like the FOSS community. I also learned about the stock market this year, which has improved my understanding of business infrastructure. I also took part in a hackathon and joined a coding Bootcamp where I worked on a team. So in the hackathon, I got exposed to different technologies, like Google Cloud. For the Bootcamp, my team built a mentorship platform, and during this process, I revisited and refined old skills, like proper agile development, which I learned in the spring when I led my first team project. I also had the chance to develop new skills, like using Docker containers and different frameworks like React, React-Bootstrap, and Express.js. So after facing these new challenges, I know I am a competent individual who is the best choice for this role because I’m the type of person who can get obsessed with a problem and immerse myself into different things like learning a new platform and tools in order to figure out the problem.