A debt instrument is a fixed income asset that legally binds a debtor to pay back any amount borrowed plus interest. Debt instruments can be issued by individuals, businesses, local and state governments, and the U.S. government.  
  
Businesses often use debt instruments to raise capital to purchase additional assets (such as manufacturing equipment) or to raise working capital, while local governments may do so to fund the building of infrastructure (such as a new highway or a bridge). Debt instruments also give participants the option to transfer the ownership of debt obligation (or instrument) from one party to another.  
  
  
Debt instruments can be short-term (repaid within a year) or long-term (paid over a year or more). Credit cards and treasury notes are examples of short-term debt instruments, while long-term business loans and mortgages fall into the category of long-term debt instruments.  
  
Debt instrument The term “debt instrument” means a bond, debenture, note, or certificate or other evidence of indebtedness. To the extent provided in regulations, such term shall include preferred stock.  
  
  
Types of Debt Instruments  
  
the most common debt instruments used by individuals, governments, and companies to raise capital.  
  
U. S. Treasury securities (also called treasuries) are government debt instruments issued by the U. S. Department of the Treasury to finance government spending as an alternative to taxation. Treasury securities are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S., meaning that the government promises to raise money by any legally available means to repay them  
U.S. treasuries tend to be more affordable than many other debt instruments. Investors can buy them in increments of $100 either through brokerage firms, banks, or the U.S. Treasury website. There are three types of treasuries: treasury bills, treasury notes, and treasury bonds. Each treasury comes with its own maturity option.  
  
  
Municipal bonds are offered by various U.S. government agencies (towns, cities, counties, or states) to fund current and future expenditures. Programs often funded by municipal bonds include the building of schools, roads, and bridges. Think of a municipal bond as a loan an investor makes to a local government.  
  
There are two types of municipal bonds: general obligation bonds and revenue bonds. General obligation bonds are not paid back by any revenue resulting from the completion of the project. Instead, they are paid back to investors through property taxes or overall general funds. Revenue bonds are paid back by the issuer through either sales, taxes, or some other type of revenue generated by the project.  
  
Municipal bonds are attractive to many investors because they are tax exempt bonds — meaning the investor doesn’t have to pay taxes on any interest received.  
  
Corporate Bonds  
A corporate bond is a debt security that a corporation can use to raise money. Funding is typically available to anyone who is interested. As with other bonds, corporate bonds are essentially an IOU from the company to the investor. It differs from stock in that, instead of being paid dividends when the company is profitable, investors are always paid regardless of whether the company is doing well.  
  
Typically, corporate bond investors are paid interest until the bond matures. When it matures, the entire principal is paid back. For example, a $1,000 corporate bond with an interest rate (or coupon rate) of 5%, would bring an investor $50 every year until the bond matures. This means that, after 10 years, the investor would see a gross return of $500.  
  
With secured bonds, the company puts up collateral (such as property or equipment) as security for the bond. If the company defaults, secured bond holders can foreclose on the collateral to reclaim their money. With an unsecured bond, a holder may or may not be able to fully reclaim their investment.  
  
  
Alternative Structured Debt Security Products  
There are many types of structured debt security products on the market, many of which are issued by financial institutions. A common occurrence is for these institutions to bundle assets together as a single debt security product. By doing this, they are able to raise capital for the financial institution while also segregating the bundled assets.  
  
Leases  
A residential or commercial lease is a legally binding contract between an owner of a property and a tenant where the tenant agrees to pay money for a set period of time in exchange for use of the rented property. A lease is a type of debt instrument because it secures a regular payment from the tenant, thus creating a secured long-term debt.  
  
  
Mortgages  
Mortgages are a type of debt instrument used to purchase either a home, commercial property, or vacant land. The loan is secured by the property being purchased (which the lender can seize if the borrower defaults on the loan).  
  
As with many other consumer loan products, mortgages are amortized, meaning the borrower makes a series of equal monthly payments that provides the lender with an interest payment (based on the unpaid principal balance as of the beginning of the month) and a principal payment that will cause the unpaid principal balance to decrease each month so that the principal balance will be zero at the time of the final payment.  
  
When seeking a mortgage, it’s important to shop around and compare mortgage rates. While most lenders base their rates on the going prime rate, some are cheaper to work with than others because of additional costs such as origination and processing fees.