Quries can be similiar between NOSQL and SQL but deffiently differ to


Let's take a look to see if NoSQL is right for you and your project. So recall CAP theorem from chapter one. It states out of consistency, availability, and partition tolerance, we can only have two out of the three in any given scenario. We looked at how relational databases focused heavily on consistency and NoSQL databases focus more on availability and partition tolerance. So knowing we can only pick two out of the three, we're essentially choosing between what are called acid, or relational databases, and base, or NoSQL databases. Consistency and isolation shown here on the left from acid databases are forgone in base databases in order to make room for performance and overall basic availability. As a rule of thumb, you'll choose between different relational and NoSQL solutions based on some fundamental qualities that your specific project requires. Overall, acid, or relational databases, are very defined and strict, whereas base systems, or NoSQL, are more fluid with graceful fallbacks. So, in acid or relational you're looking for strong consistency, precise data. You're going to have a schema. Your data is going to be well, well defined before you even start the project, and availability is not as important as consistency here. In base or NoSQL solutions, you're going to be looking more optimistically. Weak consistency is okay. It's okay to have some data that is stale, approximate data's okay. The schema doesn't need to exist upfront. You're going to just define the data as you go along. You're going to have some agile development happening. And availability is much more important here than in relational databases. Generally, relational databases are called for when we have very well-structured data. So extremely high data integrity is needed in these applications, like transactional applications, banking, finance, whenever we need to ensure that the data integrity and its consistency are in place. Scalability and availability are of less concern than the consistency of data here. Often, you'll have a team with SQL expertise, and it makes it easier for them to just deal with relational databases. NoSQL is the best choice when you're working on an agile project with evolving data. So you're going to think startups and consumer facing apps here. Eventually, consistent data is fine. And availability and/or scalability is more important than consistency. We're not talking ATM transactions with these. 

**How appropriate is a NoSQL versus relational database for your project in terms of time, money, and tech? 

## Time

Take into consideration if your team needs time to ramp up on either solution. Additionally, consider if they're familiar and well trained in agile principles or prefer waterfall. If you have strong agile developers, you might gain time savings upfront and potentially get your product to market sooner by using NoSQL. Are there a lot of complex queries? If so, using the more mature SQL language of relational databases could be a time savings in a big way. NoSQL could be much more cumbersome in this case, especially since its products each have their own unique languages which developers might need to not only learn, but also potentially be forced to write custom code for because a pre-packaged solution might not be available in these immature languages.  



**Economic** considerations such as the cost of training, the cost of scaling the server, and the cost of the complexity of your whole system, can play a part in the affordability of any given solution. When NoSQL first came out, it was lauded for its inexpensive deployment. As many a team has discovered, it's not so cut and dry, and very much depends on the number of queries you need, where relational is good in that aspect, if you're adding NoSQL into a system that already exists with relational. In that case, it's going to become more expensive because of the additional complexity and obviously the cost of hiring and training for either solution.  

Most of this course is focused on **Tech** considerations of NoSQL. And in my opinion, this should be weighted more heavily than the other considerations when making your final call. Essentially, if you need transactional integrity, you will need a relational database. There are other miscellaneous factors at play here like the complexity of your project and the tools you'll need. If talent's available and the cost and time needed for maintenance and the like. The most important aspect here is that you need to take into consideration all of the above factors prior to making a final determination. There might be additional things at play here too. Like maybe your venture capitalists loves NoSQL or relational, very well and need to start a project as soon as possible. Overall, the choice isn't cut and dry, but hopefully, you now know additional items to take into consideration.